CEP-397: Add Function Worker to Documentation (#302)
Macrometacorp/docs: docs/cep/reference/extensions/execution/fx.md

---

> title: Function Worker(Fx)

Reviewer: Why is this in extensions? Should it be higher up in the cep folder? These seem like a pretty big deal.

Author: @diana-macrometa - yes, it is should be a useful feature. But we also need to structure it. And the best place is extensions because it uses another service - FaaS. Also, it must be in execution because it executes some function.

---

> The `fx` extension executes an Edge Worker.

Reviewer: As a user, I need to understand more about what a function worker is or does. Can you give me a few sentences in this intro explaining what this new thing is and what's in it for me? Try to explain it as you would to a brand new junior developer.

Reviewer: Also, at this point we do not know what an Edge Worker is. That documentation has not been written.

## Syntax

> Executes parameterless function:

Reviewer: If I was a user, I would wonder what function you're talking about here. We need to explain somewhere that this is a user-defined function and where that function lives.

Author: Added an explanation above

    <OBJECT> fx(<STRING> name)

> Executes function with parameters set via JSON or object:

Reviewer: I recommend putting each of these different functions in a different section under syntax with an h3 heading. This will make it easier for readers to scan.

Also, consider putting the code strings in code blocks. That will make it easier to copy/paste. I also like to have examples with actual code besides the syntax strings. Something like:

Here is the syntax, use it for blah blah blah:
`code string here`

An example that does this thing with a function named blah and parameters blah blah would look like:
`fake example here`

Author: Changed to code block

    <OBJECT> fx(<STRING> name, <STRING|OBJECT> json)

Executes function with parameters set as pairs of arguments:

    <OBJECT> fx(<STRING> name, <STRING> param1Name, <String|Bool|Int|Long|Double|Float> param1Value, ...)

> Examples of function with different syntax:

Reviewer: This example is great, but I have no idea what it is supposed to do. I see a name and an age and money, but what is going on with this information?

Author: I removed it as I moved the examples to another place.

```js
	fx('fn-name')
    fx('fn-name', \"{name : 'John', age : 23}\")
    fx('fn-name', json:getObject(\"{name : [{name:'John'}], age : 23}\",'$'))
    fx('fn-name', 'name', 'John', 'age', 23)
```

## Example

> 

Reviewer: This example needs an introduction to provide context.

Author: Added an introduction

```js
@App:name("fx-1")
@App:description("This app will execute a function every 5 seconds")
@App:qlVersion('2')

> CREATE TRIGGER MyTrigger WITH ( interval = 5 sec );

Reviewer: Is TRIGGER a new thing? I have not seen it in the documentation anywhere.

Author: TRIGGER is default featire in CEP query. Please see here https://macrometa.com/docs/cep/query-guide/trigger

CREATE SINK STREAM FxSampleStream (result object);

INSERT INTO FxSampleStream
fx('my-fn-name', 'my-param', 'my-value') as result
FROM MyTrigger;
```

> For this example needs to be generated Edge Worker with name `my-fn-name`.

Reviewer: I do not understand what you mean here. This example assumes there is an Edge Worker called `my-fn-name`?

The easiest way is to:

> 1. generate Edge Worker based on Query Worker with the next query:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Generate Edge Worker based on Query Worker with the next query:
```

Reviewer: I suggest linking to the Query Workers topic here in case the reader is not familiar.

Author: I added the link directly in `Query Worker`. Does it look good?

```sql
FOR doc IN my-colection LIMIT 1 RETURN doc
```

> 2. create a collection with a name `my-colection` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a collection with a name `my-collection`.
```

Reviewer: Add a link to the topic for creating the collection you need. You do not say which type of collection.

> 3. add one document into the collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add one document to the collection.
```

Reviewer: Link to instructions for adding docs to the collection or provide a query to do that.

> Following stream `FxSampleStream` is receiving every 5 seconds result of function worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following stream `FxSampleStream` is receiving a new message every five seconds as the result of the function worker.
```

Reviewer: I am confused. Where did this stream come from? Did we make it in the stream worker you listed above?

Author: The `FxSampleStream` stream creates automatically when the stream worker publishes. We do not need to do anything extra.

>         {"result": {<my item>}}

Reviewer: Don't forget to put code within code blocks!

> :::note

Reviewer: This should not be a note.

> If the function has result with multiple items then it returns an object with multiple items in a property `items`:

Reviewer: I don't understand what you are saying here. Do you mean that if the function returns output with multiple items that the function worker will return an object with multiple entries in the items property?

Author: Yes, you are correct.

---
title: Function Worker
---

> The `fx` extension provides access to Function Worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `fx` extension provides access to _function workers_.
```

Reviewer: Can you add a sentence to this paragraph defining what a function worker is?

Function worker allows you to execute code in response to events/requests without the complex infrastructure typically associated with building and launching microservices applications. It supports multiple function worker types:

> * Akamai EdgeWorker. It enables developers to create and deploy microservices across more than a quarter of a million edge servers deployed around the globe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Akamai EdgeWorker.** It enables developers to create and deploy microservices across more than a quarter of a million edge servers deployed around the globe.
```

Reviewer: This sentence seems like marketing copy more then technical documentation. Consider linking to the documentation for Acamai EdgeWorkers, if any exists, rather than this.

Author: @diana-macrometa  - I will suggest to remove explanation of types function workers because it doesn't care which type it is.

> * Macrometa FnWorker. It is short duration synchronous functions, which will not require reuse of shared objects(ex. http connections) between functions and invocations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Macrometa FnWorker.** It is short duration synchronous functions, which does not require reuse of shared objects between functions and invocations.
```

Reviewer: @elof, is this the official name of Function Workers?

@dlazarenko-macrometa, "FnWorker" is a new term and needs to be defined before we use it. You called it a Function Worker earlier, it is not obvious that this term is an abbreviation for that.

> ## Syntax

Reviewer: Avoid stacked heading by adding a brief intro after this h2. It just needs to be a sentence or two.

> ### Parameterless function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Parameterless Function
```

Reviewer: Use title case in headings, remove the punctuation. Apply throughout.

Author: @diana-macrometa  - got you. I wonder how to reformat the next line `### Function with parameters set via JSON or object:`?

It executes function only with given name.
```js
    <OBJECT> fx(<STRING> name)
```

### Function with parameters set via JSON or object:

```js
    <OBJECT> fx(<STRING> name, <STRING|OBJECT> json)
```

> An example 1:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example 1:
```

> ```js

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```js
```

Reviewer: Leave a blank line between paragraphs and around code blocks.

    fx('fn-name', \"{name : 'John', age : 23}\")
```

> It executes the function with the name `fn-name` and JSON string put as the second parameter.

Reviewer: Put the explanation for the code block before rather than after.

> An example 2:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example 2:
```

```js
    fx('fn-name', json:getObject(\"{name : [{name:'John'}], age : 23}\",'$'))
```

> It executes the function with the name `fn-name` and object as the second parameter. Extention `json:getObject(...)` was added as an example of an object that was used here.

Reviewer: Put the code block explanation before the block rather than after.

> ### Function with parameters set as pairs of arguments:

Reviewer: Something's weird here, because this h3 is not formatting correctly. Does it look right when you do a local build?

```js
    <OBJECT> fx(<STRING> name, <STRING> param1Name, <String|Bool|Int|Long|Double|Float> param1Value, ...)
```

An example:
```js
    fx('fn-name', 'name', 'John', 'age', 23)
```

> It executes the function with the name `fn-name`, every odd parameter as a parameter 'name' or 'age', and every even parameter as a value of the parameter name `John` or `23`.

Reviewer: Put the code block explanation before the block rather than after.

## Example

An example of Stream worker that uses Function worker with a name `my-fn-name`:
```js
@App:name("fx-1")
@App:description("This app will execute a function every 5 seconds")
@App:qlVersion('2')

CREATE TRIGGER MyTrigger WITH ( interval = 5 sec );

CREATE SINK STREAM FxSampleStream (result object);

INSERT INTO FxSampleStream
fx('my-fn-name', 'my-param', 'my-value') as result
FROM MyTrigger;
```

For this example needs to be generated Edge Worker with name `my-fn-name`.
The easiest way is to:
1. Generate Edge Worker based on [Query Worker](https://macrometa.com/docs/queryworkers/building-queries) with the next query:
```sql
FOR doc IN my-colection LIMIT 1 RETURN doc
```
2. [Create](https://macrometa.com/docs/collections/documents/create-document-store) a collection with a name `my-colection`.
3. Add one document in the collection.

The following stream `FxSampleStream` is receiving a new message every five seconds as the result of the function worker.

```js
    {"result": {<my item>}}
```

> If the function has result with multiple items then it returns an object with multiple items in a property `items`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the function returns output with multiple items, then the function worker returns an object with multiple entries in the `items` property.
```
